Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has dismissed International
accusations that Israel is deliberately
targeting and starving civilians in Gaza
Netanyahu described the killing of at
least 45 civilians in a refugee camp
near Rafa earlier this week as a quote
tragic mistake the Israeli military said
it had targeted two Hamas leaders at the
location Israeli troops have pushed
further into the southern city of Rafa
in defiance of international pressure
Netanyahu insists his government's goal
is to eliminate Hamas after the group
launched the October 7th terrorist
attack on
Israel John Mina for more is Edgar Kret
he is one of Israel's most prominent
authors and a vocal critic of Benjamin
netanyahu's government welcome Mr krro
thanks for making the time you recently
wrote in an article and I'm going to
quote from it but I've shortened this
slightly there may be no clear Direction
but there is one goal prime minister
Netanyahu wants to avoid being convicted
in the three criminal cases against him
for corruption unquote so this is all
this war is all about saving his
skin I I think that in we are caught in
a in a very strange situation in which
the two people who have the greatest in
initi initiative that this war will
never Never End
are sin as the head of theas knows that
the moment that the war will be over he
will lose his power you know maybe lose
his life it depends on the circumstances
but for sure will not control Gaza and
knows that the moment that this war will
be over the moment that there will be
some kind of a break you know the
demand for election the demand for a
government that has is widely supported
by the public you know I I read in some
of the post that only 20% support netan
as a prime minister at the moment at the
in the moment of War where everybody
should be gathering around him so it
feels as if like this momentum of War
it's something that kind of slows down a
democratic processes that keeps away
some questions that you say okay we're
going to ask them on a quieter day and
that's a a very dangerous situation when
when the
people in charge are basically holding
the the
society in captivity they're basically
kind of leveraging reality for their own
end and in and hundreds and thousands
they have to pay for that you know in in
their lives they
being uprooted from their homes right
you know it's more apparent in Gaza but
this happens in Israel too where people
who who were living in the northern part
of the city you know didn't visit their
home since the 7th of October when they
were
evacuated this this war has been on for
a little over seven months I think uh
has prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
made Israel safer since the 7th of
October ER for sure it didn't and I'm
saying for a few reason one one of them
is that this government keeps inciting
except they against everyone you know
the Prime Minister himself tweeted in
the beginning of the war against the
chief of staff and the the head of the
Secret Service you know and all this
idea of this government we didn't know
anything it just everybody else's fault
it's it causes a a Rapture in the
society instead of us being in a
situation where people will say okay
here is a guy who acknowledges his
mistakes who think he did something
wrong and wants to fix it but what we
have is a government that basically
accuses everybody else for what's
happening and doesn't assume
responsibility which rips the Israeli
Society apart apart from that you know
it's a right-wing a government with many
mic and racist representative in it that
basically you know you go to hug and you
hear ministers saying things that I want
to believe do not represent the Israeli
Spirit and the Israeli people they
they're just kind of like a hijacked you
know our democracy into that direction
and they they're putting Israel in
isolation from the the Western R by
taking actions like entering Rafa
attacking in Rafa in the in the ways
that they they've attacked refusing
American demands all those kind of
things are are creating a situation in
which basically we keep attacking in
Gaza with no strategy with no thought of
the day after you know with no h
thoughts of how this kind of a a
Palestinian Society will get up from a
this war and be able to create something
that that can live by Israeli side and
basically aspiring for Palestinian state
but we're not doing it because in this
government there are a few members who
can take this government down who do not
want a Palestinian state so it seems as
if like a the the political extremist
are kind of waging the dog netan end has
to bend and to go on with their demands
you know basically this has an effect of
about of the kidnap not being able to
return of course Hamas is Playing Tricks
and he's unfair and he's doing
everything badly but I think that as a
citizen I don't have a feeling on the
other side that there is a government
that its first in initiative is to bring
those citizens home it seems as if the
first initiative is to keep fighting
Hamas you know you have these views
against prime minister Netanyahu and you
were saying a little earlier there's
only 20% of the population that that
support venam in Netanyahu but the
Israeli public doesn't think the same
really does it because it is just on
Wednesday that the respected Channel 12
ran a snap survey and found that the
majority of respondents think Mr
Netanyahu is a more capable leader over
his rival cabinet minister Benny Gant so
there is sizable support for Mr nanaho
isn't there yeah but but I I but I think
that what can be tricky about that is
that when first of all it's the first
time in a very long time you know when
you do enough spins then in a certain
day you can rise a little bit over the
people who are against you but you but
you must remember that the alternatives
to netan are a few so when you see how
those percentages break the question is
not if he gets more than another person
but how many people actually support him
and you know and I'm saying we are in
situation where the majority of the
public in all the poll says that this
government should resign you know even
among the people who supported theud you
know you have more people who are
critical of the way of the that this
government that function and is
functioning than people who are
supporting it so I think that Theos that
you're talking about shows what a a
critical lack of leadership Israel is in
that Nan gets more than his rivals
because you don't recognize any
charismatic Alternatives that can get
people around it but the one thing for
sure the majority of the people do not
want netan you know so if some of his
supporters still stay with him and help
him beat this little poll it's okay the
the important poll is that the majority
of the public wants him to resign and
that you know at some stages you know
80% of them thought that he was unfit to
be a prime minister you know Mr Carrot
you're one of Israel's most well-known
authors you're internationally acclaimed
and you write about the human condition
in sometimes surreal and dark situations
I wonder do you have some words that
describe the situation with the war
right
now well for me it feels more
anarchistic and chaotic than anything
you know all my life being a left Wier I
found myself a fighting against a
different ideology but right now I don't
feel that as if I'm facing an ideology
there is no ideology it's just a bunch
of people that each of them has their
narrow interest you know helping the
outra Orthodox helping the the settlers
a I don't know advancing homophobic
agenda it doesn't matter what it is it's
a cluster of of Bandits you know that
are basically snatching and changing
whatever they can and the even move in a
very unpredictable and inconsistent
manner they can say one thing they can
say the other but what stays behind it
is very very narrow goal and all this
thing is breaking the Israeli Society
apart because you don't have any figures
that you can look to and say here is the
person you know who leads me and who
really think of all of us as a society
not only of helping his supporters and
punishing the people who didn't vote for
him we'll leave it there for the moment
but thanks so much for joining us today
from Tel Aviv Israeli author edar KR
pleasure talking to you sir